.. _upgrade-to-3.9.0:

###################
3.9.0 release notes
###################


This release of django CMS (first community driven release) introduces support for Django 3.2, and bugfix.
We tried to catch up with as many long waited feature/bugfix requests as possible.


*******************
What's new in 3.9.0
*******************

Features:
=========
* Add support for Django 3.2 LTS version
* Page changed_date added to the Page tree admin actions dropdown template #6701 (#7046) (73cbbdb00) -- Vladimir Kuvandjiev
* Allow recursive template extending in placeholders (#6564) (fed6fe54d) -- Stefan Wehrmeyer
* Added ability to set placeholder global limit on children only (#6847) (18e146495) -- G3RB3N
* Replaced Travis.CI with Github Actions (#7000) (0f33b5839) -- Vinit Kumar
* Added support for Github Actions based CI.
* Added Support for testing frontend, docs, test and linting in different/parallel CI pipelines.
* Added django-treebeard 4.5.1 support, previously pinned django-treebeard<4.5 to avoid breaking changes introduced
* Fixed template label nested translation
* Fixed a bug where the fallback page title would be returned instead of the one from the current language 
* Fixed an issue when running migrations on a multi database project


***********************
How to upgrade to 3.9.0
***********************

We assume you are upgrading from django CMS 3.8.

Please make sure that your current database is consistent and in a healthy
state, and **make a copy of the database before proceeding further.**

Check your settings of `CMS_LANGUAGES` (if used), as it was ignored by default in preceding versions.
For more information, please see: https://github.com/django-cms/django-cms/pull/6795

Then run::

    python manage.py migrate  # to ensure that your database is up-to-date with migrations
    python manage.py cms fix-tree

Check custom code and third-party applications for use of deprecated or removed functionality or
APIs (see above). Some third-party components may need to be updated.

Install the new version of django CMS from GitHub or via pip.

Run::

    python manage.py migrate

to apply the new migrations.
